[CQT-136] Update README (#49)
QuTech-Delft/cQASM-spec: README.md

# cQASM language specification

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

This repository contains the language specification of the cQASM quantum programming language.
cQASM stands for *c*ommon *Q*uantum *AS*se*M*bly language.

> ## Deployment

Reviewer: The Deployment section should indeed be a page confluence. So it should be removed from the README.

As mentioned in a previous comment, the following section can be added to the README, for use by potential contributors:

## Generate the cQASM language specification locally

Clone the repository to your local machine

```shell
git clone https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/cQASM-spec.git
```

We recommend to create a virtual environment (_e.g._, [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)), run it, and install the requirements

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Once the required dependencies have installed, the language specification can be served locally at <http://localhost:8000> by running:

```shell
mkdocs serve
```

The language specification can also be viewed via a provisioned Docker container; no virtual environment is required in this case. Run the Docker container with the following command

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

The language specification can now be viewed at <http://localhost:8106>.

Author: Done. With:
- some minor tweaks (e.g., adding colons at the end of a phrase), and
- changing the title to `How to generate...`.

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of the ellipsis (`...`), it could be `How to generate` or `Generate the specification locally`

### MkDocs

The cQASM language specification documentation is generated using [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/),
a documentation framework on top of [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org).

    mkdocs.yml                   # The configuration file
    mkdocs-base.yml              # Base configuration file
    docs/
        index.md                 # The documentation homepage
        introduction/            # History, context, acknowledgements
        language_specification/  # The cQASM language specification
        appendices/              # Spin-2
        javascripts/             # JS configuration files for extensions

You can serve the documentation locally at <http://localhost:8000> by running:

```shell
mkdocs serve
```

The documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages. To deploy the docs run:

```shell
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

### Using the Docker container

The documentation can also be viewed via the provisioned Docker container.
Run the docker container with the following command:

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

> The documentation can now be viewed at <http://localhost:8106>.

Reviewer: Move to confluence page.

Author: Created: https://qutech-sd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/QW/pages/3555950593/Deployment.

> ## Documentation

Reviewer: We don't have a Documentation section for the cQASM spec, because the specification _is_ the docs.

Author: Done.

> The [cQASM language specification documentation](https://qutech-delft.github.io/cQASM-spec/) is hosted through GitHub Pages.

Reviewer: This should be part of the intro (after line 6).
```suggestion
The [cQASM language specification](https://qutech-delft.github.io/cQASM-spec/) is hosted through GitHub Pages.
```

Author: Done.

> This repository contains the specification documents of the cQASM quantum programming language. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains the language specification of the cQASM quantum programming language. cQASM stands for common Quantum ASsembly language.
```

## Documentation

The cQASM language specification documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages [here](https://qutech-delft.github.io/cQASM-spec/).

## Deployment

### MkDocs

The cQASM language specification documentation is generated using [Material for MkDocs](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/),
a documentation framework on top of [MkDocs](https://www.mkdocs.org).

    mkdocs.yml                   # The configuration file
    mkdocs-base.yml              # Base configuration file
    docs/
        javascripts/             # JS configuration files for extensions
        language-specification   # The cQASM language specification
        index.md                 # The documentation homepage

You can serve the documentation locally at <http://localhost:8000> by running:

```shell
mkdocs serve
```

The documentation is hosted through GitHub Pages. To deploy the docs run:

```shell
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

### Using the Docker Container

The documentation can also be viewed via the provisioned Docker container.
Run the docker container with the following command

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

> The documentation can now be viewed at <http://localhost:8106>.

Reviewer: _Deployment details should indeed be put in a Confluence page.
This section can be replaced by:_

## Generate the cQASM language specification locally

Clone the repository to your local machine

```shell
git clone https://github.com/QuTech-Delft/cQASM-spec.git
```

It is advised to create a virtual environment (_e.g._, [venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)), run it, and install the requirements

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Once the required dependencies have installed, the language specification can be served locally at <http://localhost:8000> by running:

```shell
mkdocs serve
```

The language specification can also be viewed via a provisioned Docker container; no virtual environment is required in this case. Run the Docker container with the following command

```shell
docker compose up -d
```

The language specification can now be viewed at <http://localhost:8106>.
